New Zealand remains one of a few nations that prominently features a Union Jack in its flag, a remnant of its time as a British colony.
Although the New Zealand flag is long overdue for an update, Kiwis should vote to keep the current flag in the ongoing referendum.
So far, the referenda are largely motivated by a necessity to differentiate the flag from the Australian flag and demonstrate New Zealand's independence from Great Britain.
Instead, the efforts to design a new flag should be motivated by a necessity to accurately represent New Zealand's unique identity in the world as a country and a people.

Arguably, New Zealand is the former colony with the best modern-day integration of its native peoples, cultures, and flora and fauna.
Perhaps the greatest example of this is the designation and especially the use of Māori as an official language.
Therefore, we should expect that the flag of New Zealand upholds these same principles.
The current flag, which consists of the Union Jack (a symbol of the British Empire) and the Southern Cross (a symbol of Christianity), clearly represents little of New Zealand's native culture.
Fortunately, many of the proposed flags contain elements such as the silver fern, koru, and long white clouds and use colours such as green and black.

However, while the shortlisted flag incorporates a silver fern, it also takes it colours and design heavily from the current flag.
Althought removing the Union Jack or its colours from the flag may reasonably be seen as a political statement that rejects the British constitutional monarchy, history suggests that the consequences of such a change are unlikely to be quite so drastic.
While the majority of nations in the Commonwealth realm do not feature a Union Jack or even its colours in their flag, they continue to have Queen Elizabeth II as their reigning monarch.
Furthermore, several of these nations have successfully adopted new flags without disrupting their membership in the Commonwealth, such as Canada.
This leaves little reason to continue to incorporate elements from the original flag especially if they do not help to emphasize New Zealand's unique identity.

In light of these arguments, the proposed flag is unsuitable and even inappropriate for the original mission of the referendum.
Given the significant costs of adopting a new flag, any decision should not be taken lightly.
While the current proposal is an important step in the right direction, if it is accepted it will deny the possibility any other flags being considered in the near future, if at all.
Therefore, the current flag should be kept until New Zealand and its government are ready to consider a truly new flag that represents the country, its culture, and its history.
