The ongoing flag debate is an exciting opportunity for New Zealand to revise and renew its face to the world.
Consistent with this idea, the referenda were largely motivated by a necessity to differentiate the flag from the Australian flag and demonstrate New Zealand's independence from Great Britain.
However, these are superficial reasons to redesign the flag and, instead, the efforts to design a new flag should be focused on accurately representing New Zealand's unique identity as a country and a people.
A flag that does this well will almost certainly be distinct from the Australian and British flags.
Given the significant and nontrivial costs of adopting a new flag, Kiwis should reject any proposal that falls short of perfect under this criterion.

Today, New Zealand is the former colony with the best modern-day integration of its native people, cultures, and flora and fauna.
One of the finest examples of this is the designation and usage of Māori as an official language.
Thus, we should expect the flag of New Zealand to uphold this sample principle of integration.
The current flag, which consists of the Union Jack (a symbol of the British Empire) and the Southern Cross (a symbol of Christianity), clearly represents little of New Zealand's native culture or peoples.
Although the shortlisted design incorporates a silver fern, it still takes its colours and design heavily from the current flag.
In particular, the choice of colours and preservation of the Southern Cross also does not support the original, superficial mission of distinguishing New Zealand from Australia and Great Britain.
Unfortunately little of New Zealand's native culture or people has found its way into the shortlisted design, a fatal flaw.

Especially jarring is that the majority of nations alongside New Zealand in the Commonwealth realm, all reigned by Queen Elizabeth II, have flags that do not feature a Union Jack or even its colours.
In fact, several of these nations, such as Canada, have successfully replaced Union Jack flags with new, original designs without disrupting their membership in the Commonwealth.
Given that history shows that the consequences of removing the Union Jack and its colours are effectively non-existent, this leaves little reason to continue to incorporate elements from the current New Zealand flag if they speak little to the country's unique identity.

The shortlisted flag is without doubt unsuitable for the task of representing New Zealand's identity and furthermore is inappropriate even for the original mission of the referendum.
Although the shortlisted design is certainly a step in the right direction, if it were to be accepted, it would replace the current flag at a prohibitive cost.
It is this expense that makes any change effectively permanent by denying the possibility of any other flags being considered in the near future, if at all.
Therefore, Kiwis should vote to keep the current flag in the ongoing and future referenda until the New Zealand government is ready to consider a truly new and innovative flag that faithfully represents the country, its culture, and its history.
