Hunt, E. (2015, September 4). New Zealanders offered flag shortlist ask: can we have this one instead? The Guardian. Retrieved from http://www.theguardian.com

The Guardian article on the the Red Peak flag will be a valuable addition to my essay because it meets all of the CRAAP criteria.
The article is current to the latest flag debate and furthermore was written at the time of the events it describes, making it a primary source.
It is relevant not only because it is about the flag debate, but also because it discusses an alternative flag that is substantially different from the final proposed design.
This will help to build support for my argument.
I can be confident in the accuracy and authority of this source in large part because it was published in The Guardian, an internationally-recognised reputable British newspaper.
While newspapers such as The Guardian are not infallible, they do have several procedures in place to ensure the correctness of their published material.
In addition, the article bases its information on a variety of sources close to the flag debate and the Red Peak flag.
Finally, because the purpose of this article is to report and inform, it does not have any explicit bias.

The argument in my essay is that the neither the proposed nor current New Zealand flag include elements that are well-representative of New Zealand as a whole. 
This source helps to support this argument by identifying the dissatisfaction of several Kiwis with the shortlisted flags.
If enough Kiwis are dissatisfied with a shortlisted flag, then it follows that the flag is not representative of the people of New Zealand.
Furthermore, they propose that the Red Peak flag be added to the shortlist.
What is most notable about the Red Peak flag is that it is quite different from the proposed flag in that it does not feature a silver fern nor the southern cross.
Therefore, I will argue that it is unlikely that the silver fern and southern cross are representative of New Zealand and its people and should not be on the national flag.
